Subject: PayPal Freezes Campaign Funds
Author: Brennan
Date: September 5, 2013

[**Update:** PayPal have unfrozen the account, for now at least. Thank
you for your support!]

Saturday August 31st I woke to two emails from PayPal. The first
notified me they had cancelled the debit card associated with my sole
proprietor business account, the second was informing me they placed a
block on my account barring me from withdrawing or sending any money out
of my PayPal account. I figured my account must have tripped an
automatic security limit the night before. I logged into their website
to see what actions I needed to do in order to remove the block on my
account.
 
After 4 phone calls, the last of which I spoke to a supervisor, the
understanding I have come to is, unless Mailpile provides PayPal with a
detailed budgetary breakdown of how we plan to use the donations from
our crowd funding campaign they will not release the block on my account
for 1 year until we have shipped a 1.0 version of our product. A final
email communication from PayPal reaffirmed us of their stance by
stating:

> "Please provide an itemized budget and your development goal dates for
> your project"
    
This puts us in an incredibly uncomfortable position as we do not feel
that it's remotely in their jurisdiction to ask for a detailed budget of
our business, any more than it is within our right to ask for theirs. 

Communications with PayPal have implied that they would use any excuse
available to them to delay delivering as much of our cash as possible
for as long as possible. Asking us to give them justification for such
behavior is obviously not in our best interests. PayPal's position
particularly ridiculous when contrasted with IndieGoGo's policy of
transferring all funds to successful campaigns within 15 days of their
conclusion. If IndieGoGo can do it, so can PayPal.

They just don't want to, and we cannot help but wonder why. Crowd
funding is an adventure. It is thrilling to feel a community of
supporters backing your project and giving you a sense of security that
you'll be able to bring your vision to life over the course of the next
year coupled with freedom to maintain your vision unbeholden to
shareholders and 3rd parties. After going round and round on the phone
with PayPal, I am left with the very strong feeling that this
entrpreneurial freedom is in jeopardy.   If PayPal has financial risks
to mitigate, why is that specially true in our case?  Are the risks
larger because we are successful?

(Please see our latest [IndieGoGo Campaign update for further
details](/blog/2013-09-05_IndieGoGo_Update_3.html).)

