Subject: PayPal News (IGG Update #4)
Author: Bjarni
Date: September 6, 2013
Type: blog

<small>(The following was posted to
[IndieGoGo](http://igg.me/at/mailpile) as a campaign update.)</small>

Dear Mailpile Supporters,

The last 24 hours have been pretty crazy. Since our last update, we have
been on Hacker News, on Ars Technica, on Slashdot and a bunch of other
media have reported on or discussed the difficulties we had with PayPal.
Not to mention the tweets. So many tweets...

The good news is, PayPal listened to the community and reversed their
stance. They have not only unfrozen our account, we are thrilled to say
they donated $1,000 to our project, only $24 shy of making them an
Underfunded Spook. We are so tickled by the idea of PayPal as an
Underfunded Spook, that we will be offering them the same perks anyway.

But PayPal is not our only generous new backer. Since our last round of
introductions, the following fine folks have also contributed large
amounts to our cause:

The nice guys at [Bytemark hosting](http://www.bytemark.co.uk/) joined
our group of Postmaster Generals ($2,048) and wrote an excellent [blog
post explaining why they support our 
work](http://blog.bytemark.co.uk/2013/08/30/why-were-supporting-mailpile-a-modern-fast-webmail-client-with-user-friendly-encryption).

Another new Postmaster General is [Brian
Cartmel](http://cartmell.co.nz), a tech and business guru living in New
Zealand. His primary interests are individual freedom, bitcoin, computer
security,  artificial intelligence, seasteading, life extension, and
locally produced food. And now, Mailpile!

Finally we had a third anonymous Postmaster General backer, and quite a
few people have donated significant amounts of the Bitcoin digital
currency to our campaign as well. We are humbled by their unselfish
generosity.

(For those of you who missed the previous introductions, check out the
[2nd campaign update on our
blog](http://www.mailpile.is/blog/2013-08-21_IndieGoGo_Update_2.html).)

Thanks for reading, and thanks again for your support.

 -- Bjarni, Brennan and Sm√°ri

