Subject: Turning Money Into Code
Author: Bjarni
Date: August 20, 2013

With three weeks left of [our campaign](http://igg.me/at/mailpile), we
have already reached our goal of $100,000 USD!

This is absolutely fantastic and we are deeply grateful to all of you
for believing in us and supporting our vision with your hard earned
cash. It's now very likely that we will over-shoot our goals and raise
more money than we initially planned for. This begs the question: how do
we turn extra money into code?

We have already had this discussion in private with some of our larger
backers, but we feel it is only right to make a public statement about
this and keep our entire community informed.


### A Young Project

Mailpile is a project which is just in its infancy. We have a rough
prototype, we have a vision and now we have a community and money to
work with. But we don't yet have all the answers.

Over the next few months, we need to sort out a lot of things to do with
the infrastructure of the project:

  * We need a community forum to continue interacting with our backers
  * We need automated tests for our code-base
  * We need to define APIs for plug-ins and interacting with external apps
  * We need to further develop our theme architecture
  * We need to solidify the overall design of the system, so it is clear
    where and how people can pitch in

These are all prerequisites for being able to accept outside help - or
to be able to turn money into manpower into useful code. So these are
our top priorities for the Alpha release in January.


### What Can Money do?

Having extra money gives us a few options:

   1. Raise our salaries
   2. Work longer, extend the lifetime of the project beyond 1 year
   3. Hire additional people
   4. Hire contractors for specific tasks
   5. Set money aside for a "rainy day" or unexpected events
   6. Attend conferences, hackathons and meetups in other countries

Which of these makes sense, depends a lot on how the project develops
and how much money we end up with at the end of the campaign. At the
moment we are leaning towards the last three - contractors, a "rainy
day" fund, and growing our community in person.

The reasons for this are threefold.

One has to do with the general  unpredictability of software
development. A rainy day fund explicitly acknowledges the fact that we
don't yet have all the answers and gives us the flexibility to react to
the known unknowns we will face later on.

Choosing to work with contractors rather than hiring a fourth or fifth
team member is appealing to us, because it reduces the management
overhead and allows us to choose who we work with based on exactly the
skills required for specific tasks, rather than looking for more
generalists who are willing to take a pay cut to work on a cool project
in a far away land. An example of sub-projects which fit this model are
development of an Android native client, or packaging work to make
Mailpile available to non-technical Windows or Mac users and as part of
the more popular Linux distros. As we make progress refining our design
and the project matures, more such sub-projects will emerge and money
will let us act upon them.

Finally, without our community, this project wouldn't be what it is. We
want to meet you and hear your feedback and build relationships. This is
vital for the long term viability of Mailpile and the health of the
project. Not to mention making it more fun!

The bottom line is, we want to spend the money in the most effective way
possible and do what is right for Mailpile and our community. We don't
yet know all of the details, but we look forward to figuring it out and
we'll keep you posted as we go along.

Thank you for your support!

