Subject: The Home Stretch (IGG Update #5)
Author: Brennan
Date: September 10, 2013
Type: blog

<small>(The following was posted to
[IndieGoGo](http://igg.me/at/mailpile) as a campaign update.)</small>

Dear Mailpile Supporters,

We are in the home stretch- less than 24 hours to go on the campaign.
We're up to a whopping $155,000.00 from over 3,500 donors who have faith
in what we are doing. We can't thank all of you enough!

Please welcome our newest Postmaster General,
[Intermine](http://intermine.com/), an Australian based software company
that produces a storage management product called FileCensus. Intermine
has "a lot of mail from lots of users over 15 years" and they wish to
move this data (which is currently under the control of a very large USA
based company) in light of given recent privacy developments. Thanks for
believing in us, Intermine!

Over the weekend the team convened in England for some planning and dev
timelines (which we will release soon) as well as to attend
[IndieWebCampUK](http://indiewebcamp.com/2013/UK) where we discussed and
hacked on various exciting decentralization projects that community is
working on.

<img src='/img/740px-indie-web-camp-2013-uk.jpg'>

To better explain decentralization, and the role we feel it will play in
creating a more secure and private internet, we've published [a new
"Conversations" video](2013-09-10_Surveillance_Centralization.html), enjoy!

We plan on continuing to publish "Conversations" videos after the
campaign ends, as we think they are a good way of fleshing out larger
ideas. We'd love to hear feedback from you on topics you would like to
see covered in these videos.

Thanks for reading, and thanks again for your support.

 -- Bjarni, Brennan and Sm√°ri

