Subject: DarkMail and Secure Protocols
Author: Sm√°ri
Date: October 31, 2013

Over the last couple of days, a lot of people have contacted us asking if we
are going to support or implement [DarkMail, a project announced yesterday by
the developers of LavaBit and Silent Circle](http://darkmail.info/). The idea
of increasing e-mail privacy and security is one of our core goals, after all.

The short answer is: until DarkMail is an open standard, we can't really
comment on what it means to Mailpile.

<img src='/files/dark-forest-of-security.jpg'>

However, we can say that there are certain things DarkMail could do which would
make us very interested in working with them. And conversely, there are things
they could do which we would strongly disagree with. There is much public
uproar about government surveillance at the moment, and it is disappointing to
see that a lot of it is leading to projects that, while being driven by honest
intentions, are skirting past important details or developing them behind
closed doors. Hopefully, DarkMail won't make that mistake.

This isn't just about lofty ideals or personal politics, this is about
security. When developing a system that is to be secure, the golden rule is
[Kerchoffs' principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerckhoffs%27s_principle),
which states that such systems should always be designed with the assumption
that attackers have full knowledge of how they work. Projects that do not
guarantee their designs will be open to public scrutiny, may be attempting to
provide security through obscurity - which isn't security at all. The correct
way to develop something like this, is out in the open, where it can be
scrutinized, attacked, gutted and ripped apart a thousand times over by the
best cryptographers, protocol designers and systems engineers in the world, so
that when a final decision is made, it'll be a good one. That applies to the
code and doubly so to the standard it implements. Yes, yes, we know that
standards processes are painfully slow and wrought with horror, but that
doesn't mean that skipping them is a good idea.

At this point, it is unclear how open DarkMail plans to be or how centralized.
They promise to release code as open source, but less has been said about
the more important question of how the underlying protocols themselves will be
designed. So, while we very much support their goals, we ask that the DarkMail
group do certain things to make sure that it becomes all it can be:
    
   1. Reach out to the developers of other e-mail applications, including but
not limited to Thunderbird, Evolution, and Mailpile, and invite them to
participate in the process of delineating a standard.
    
   2. Work the entire process through an IETF Internet draft standard process.
The IETF meeting in Vancouver next week might be a prime oportunity to broach
this subject and get it moving.
    
   3. Share their working codebase with the public as soon as possible. Even
though they're probably pretty far from a stable release, the notion of
"release early, release often" is a tried and tested concept that we advocate
strongly.

It is crucial that DarkMail be open about what they're doing, not just in word
but also in action. Press releases make bad technical specifications, and
handwaving makes bad crypto. Any realistic solution to the problem of mass
surveillance of digital communications needs to be one that is fully in line
with current best practices. Considering what is at stake, anything less is
unacceptable.

So, until we have clear answers to these questions, we're going to keep working
with what we have: an almost 50 year old, open, decentralized communications
protocol with 2.3 billion users worldwide, running of a standards base that has
left a lot of room for iterative improvement.

