Subject: Mailpile Workshop in London
Author: Bjarni
Date: April 7, 2014

<img src="/files/London-Workshop-2014.png">

Later this month the Mailpile core team will all be in London for
various reasons. We would love to take advantage of this to get to know
some of the people in our community, and have decided to host a workshop
and social event in the city on the 18th of April. 

The event will be at the ThoughtWorks London offices, on the 9th floor, 
168-174 High Holborn, London, WC1V 7AA. For access to the building, call 
Sm√°ri on +44 (0)7473 363763.

## Schedule

**Workshop:**

    12:00  Doors open. Coffee is served.
    12:30  Presentation: Mailpile internals and plugin architecture
    13:00  Plugin hacking session

**Social event:**

    17:00  Presentation: Mailpile roadmap and community
    18:00  Social event: Pizza, beer, ...
    20:00  Presentation: What did we hack on today?
    20:30  Doors close, thirsty people move to the pub

## What's going on?

At this event we will launch a bare-bones community site and start
soliciting feedback from our community on which software license they
prefer the project use long-term. Note that this will not be the final
iteration of our community platform but it wil be a start. Many people
have asked about the status of our community platform as we had promised
it back in February and have not yet delivered, apologies - we will post
more details later this week. :)

The timing for this workshop aligns nicely with us putting the finishing
touches on the second iteration of the Mailpile plugin architecture. We
are quite excited about this - it is rapidly becoming feasible to
develop useful plugins as stand-alone projects, which will make it
easier for members of our community to contribute and customize Mailpile
to match their diverse needs - without the core team being a
bottle-neck. This workshop will introduce this new system to members of
our U.K. community, we will get their feedback and hopefully squash a
few bugs as a result.

So save the date and join us in London! We can't wait to meet you.
