Subject: Beta Rejected!
Date: March 6, 2015
Author: Bjarni
Type: blog

I would like to thank everyone who took the time download the Mailpile
Beta releases and give us valuable feedback. **Thank you, thank you,
thank you!**

It's always exciting and scary to put your work out there for everyone
to see, but our early adopters have been universally supportive and
gracious, even when Mailpile didn't quite work as well as they had
hoped.

But now that a bunch of people have taken the time to download Mailpile,
poke it with a stick and put it through it's paces, it is time to
declare the beta test period over for now. We need to respond to the
feedback and fix the issues that were discovered.

Obviously we had hoped things were almost ready for public consumption,
that we were close to making a proper release. The testing did it's job
alright: we know now we were a tad overoptimistic. Just a tad! So we're
going back to the drawing board.

<img src='/img/rejection-stamp.png' style='float: right;'>

Some of the key take-aways from our beta tests were:

1. We bit off more than we can chew in our 1.0 plans. The app needs to
   be simplified so we can ship something really stable.
2. Our IMAP support still needs work so it can interoperate with all
   the different mail servers out there. The Internet is a big and
   diverse place!
3. Our GnuPG strategy and code isn't ready. We need to either make all
   that crypto stuff completely seamless, or improve the tools we expose
   to the user for manual work. Preferably both.

Those are the really big issues, but there are a very large number of
other smaller bugs and loose ends that need work. Almost all of these
are in the "back end" of the app, the low level plumbing, gears and
turbines and closures and APIs that work behind the scenes. The back-end
has been playing catch up to the user interface for a while, it needs
some focus and attention before we can ship a real product.  We fooled
even ourselves by making something that *looked* almost ready, even
though under the hood it just wasn't.

So I (Bjarni the backend guy) am going to be doubling down on that stuff
... just as soon as I'm finished marrying the most amazing woman I know
later this month. So don't worry if the github repo is quiet until early
April. I'll be back!

Since most of Mailpile's current limitations are low level back-end
problems, Brennan (our awesome front-end developer) has moved on to
other things for now. I'd like to thank him for all his hard work so far
and encourage you all to stay tuned for news about his ongoing efforts
to improve the usability of crypto apps and modernize PGP.

See you in April!
