Subject: Holiday Season Updates
Author: Bjarni Rúnar
Date: December 12, 2017
Type: blog

Happy holidays, dear readers!

It's been way too long since I updated this blog. Way too long!

Back in August, the plan was to quickly post job ads and start looking
for people to hire for our next stages of work - building minimal
Windows and Mac GUIs, and installers.

That timeline didn't quite pan out, mostly because I was distracted by
other work. My [other job](https://pagekite.net/) needed my attention,
then [the Icelandic government
collapsed](https://grapevine.is/news/2017/09/15/icelands-government-collapses-uncertainty-lies-ahead/),
so I volunteered some of my time to help the [Icelandic
Pirates](https://www.piratar.is/) campaign. I also moved back to Italy
from Iceland, which always slows me down for a while.

But enough excuses already!

After some intensive introspection and deep analysis of the Mailpile
project's structure and history, we have identified our biggest problem:
I am a bottleneck. OK, I made that up. We didn't perform any analysis,
it's been obvious for a while that this is a problem. However, empowered
by Bitcoin's latest shenanigans, we have finally done something about
it.

We've hired a project manager!

The talented [Oktavía Hrund](https://twitter.com/Oktavia) has been hired
to make sure things get done in spite of me. She has a contract in hand,
a budget to work with and Mailpile installed on her laptop... she's here
to kick ass and chew bubblegum.

We have changed ownership!

Another recent development, is Mailpile ehf, the Icelandic company
founded around the project has changed ownership. Mailpile ehf used to
be fully owned by the original project founders: Smári McCarthy, Brennan
Novak and myself. Since then, Brennan has moved on to other things.
Recently he sold his shares to [Daniel
Yeow](https://www.danielyeow.com/). Daniel should be a a familiar face
to the the speed skaters amongst you (I hear Mailpile is huge in the
speed skating community... huge!), but he has also been helping out with
coordination of our Transifex community while researching whether it is
possible to use Raspberry-Pi-like devices to make a Mailpile hardware
product.

You made this happen!

Your encouragement, your belief in our vision and your gracious
donations (including Bitcoin donations) are what makes Mailpile
possible. Bitcoin prices have risen dramatically, so much so that we now
have enough magical Internet money to fund another round or two of work
after this one - assuming Bitcoin doesn't collapse completely in the
meantime! So thank you again for your trust and donations. They have
given us the motivation and courage we need to keep going and make
Mailpile available, easy and accessible to you all! We may be late, but
never isn't an option.

That's the news for now.

I'm sure Okta will make me blog again soon. Until then, I hope you enjoy
Santaseason, spend some quality time with your loved ones and enter the
Gregorian Calendar New Year full of joy and optimism...

Take care!

